Deployment category title standardization (#8809)
flutter/website: src/deployment/flavors.md

---
title: Create flavors of a Flutter app
short-title: Flavors
description: >
  How to create build flavors specific to different
  release types or development environments.
---

## What are flavors

Have you ever wondered how to set up different environments in your Flutter app?

> Flavors (known as _build configurations_ in iOS), allow you (the developer) to
> create separate environments for your app using the same code base.
> For example, you might have one flavor for your full-fledged production app,
> another as a limited "free" app, another for testing experimental features, and so on.

Reviewer: **issues:** Write as shorter sentences per [GSG](https://developers.google.com/style/accessibility#ease-of-reading). Remove parentheticals. Improve the context.
```suggestion
Build environments allow you to use separate configuration settings
for your app while using the same code base.
Web applications may have a development, staging, test, and production
environment. These should all use the same code with different
settings for hostname, IP address, and the like. 
Flutter borrows the term _flavors_ from Android to describe
these environments.
The iOS ecosystem refers to them as _build configurations_.
As an example, you might have one flavor for your full-fledged
production app, another as a limited "free" app,
and yet another for testing experimental features.
```

## Using flavors in iOS

Now that you’ve set up your free flavor,

> you can, for example, add different product bundle identifiers per flavor.

Reviewer: **nit:** The constant `for example` get tiring. Consider removing it here.
```suggestion
you can add different product bundle identifiers per flavor.
```

A _bundle identifier_ uniquely identifies your application.
In this example, we set the **Debug-free** value to equal
`com.flavor-test.free`.

<ol markdown="1">
<li markdown="1">

Change the app bundle identifier to differentiate between schemes.
In **Product Bundle Identifier**, append `.free` to each -free scheme value.

![Step 1 using flavors image.](/assets/images/docs/flavors/step-1-using-flavors-free.png){:width="100%"}  

</li>
<li markdown=1>

In the **Build Settings**, set the **Product Name** value to match each flavor.
For example, add Debug Free.

![Step 2 using flavors image.](/assets/images/docs/flavors/step-2-using-flavors-free.png){:width="100%"}  

</li>
<li markdown=1>

Add the display name to **Info.plist**. Update the **Bundle Display Name** 
value to `$(PRODUCT_NAME)`.

![Step 3 using flavors image.](/assets/images/docs/flavors/step3-using-flavors.png){:width="100%"}

</li>
</ol>

Now you have set up your flavor by making a `free` scheme
in Xcode and setting the build configurations for that scheme.

> For more information, skip to the [Launching your app flavors][]

Reviewer: **nit:** Prefer to use a call to action over an FYI.
```suggestion
To learn more, skip to the [Launching your app flavors][]
```
